---
Title: "Discovery of the Plastic Ocean"
Year: "1997"
Order: 199701
Type: "timelineEvent"
hidden: "true"
id: plasticocean
---

#### Discovery of the 7th continent

In 1997, Captain Charles Moore discovered the Great Pacific Garbage Patch (GPGP)-- a whirlpool of plastic debris in the Pacific Ocean. This is the biggest accumulation of plastic in a ocean gyre. It extends over 3 millions km2 or 6 times the area of France.

Plastic we create unfortunately ends up in the ocean. According to a {{< mylink name="WWF report" href="https://wwfint.awsassets.panda.org/downloads/wwf_impacts_of_plastic_pollution_on_biodiversity.pdf" >}}, between 86-150 million metric tonnes (MMT) of plastic have accumulated in the oceans in 2022, at a continuously increasing rate: in 2010, 4.8-12.7 MMT of plastic waste pollution were estimated to enter the ocean from land, while a more recent study suggests that 19-23 MMT entered our waterways in 2016. 80 percent of plastic in the ocean is estimated to come from land-based sources, with the remaining 20 percent coming from boats and other marine sources. This plastic accumulates in five ocean gyres. All five have an increased concentration of plastic waste compared to other parts of the oceans.

The vast majority of these plastic particles can barely be seen with the naked eye because they are microplastics (smaller than five millimeters). The gyres, however, do not feature floating islands of plastic, also called garbage patches. There is no visible floating mass of plastic waste in the middle of the ocean. Such misunderstandings persist, but pollution in the gyres is really an increased concentration of plastic that is, for the most part, in very small pieces.

We estimate that 100000 marine animals and one million seabirds die each year by ocean plastic ingestion or entanglement.

In 2019, a {{< mylink name="report" href="https://www.weforum.org/reports/the-new-plastics-economy-rethinking-the-future-of-plastics" >}} estimated that there will be more plastic than fish by weight by 2050. The UN President of the 73rd Session reacted :

{{< quote textQuote="If we do nothing, by 2050, our world’s oceans will have more plastic in them than fish (by weight). I am going to repeat this, because it is an idea that appears monumentally absurd, but according to a report by the World Economic Forum and Ellen MacArthur Foundation, this is exactly the future we are headed toward: There will be more plastic than fish in the ocean in just over 30 years." whoQuote="María Fernanda Espinosa Garcés, President of the 73rd Session of the United Nations General Assembly" linkQuote="https://www.un.org/pga/73/2019/06/05/op-ed-we-must-save-our-world-from-drowning-in-plastic"  srcQuote="We Must Save Our World From Drowning in Plastic" infoQuote="Wednesday, June 5, 2019" >}}