---
Title: "El Informe Brundtland"
Year: "1987"
Order: 198701
Type: "timelineEvent"
hidden: "true"
id: brundtland
---

#### A famous report on Sustainable Development

The Bruntland Report also known for its title _Our Common Future_, is an ordered report by the United Nations on the subject of Sustainable Development.

{{< quote textQuote="It was an urgent call by the General Assembly of the United Nations to propose long-term environmental strategies for achieving sustainable development by the year 2000 and beyond. [...] The Earth is one but the world is not. [...] A sustainable society is one that meets the need of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs." whoQuote="Gro Harlem Brundtland" linkQuote="https://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/content/documents/5987our-common-future.pdf" srcQuote="Brundtland Report" infoQuote="1987" >}}

_"The Earth is one but the world is not"_, this sentence is famous for its crucial meaning : regarding environmental and social issues that do not limit themselves to frontiers, political institutions are ineffective, because they depend on nation states.

For those wondering what sustainable development means and implies, I would like to introduce Herman Daly, a co-nominee for the Peace Prize due to his revelation that the current economic system is leading to ecological collapse. He is emeritus professor at the University of Maryland’s School of Public Policy. He was Senior Economist in the Environment Department of the World Bank too. He had a major impact on the world by identifying indicators that are essential for a sustainable human society that are well known as {{< mylink name="Herman Daly’s Three Rules" href="https://np4sd.org/about/herman-daly/"  >}}:

*   Sustainable use of renewable resources means that the pace should not be faster than the rate at which they regenerate.
    
*   Sustainable use of non-renewable resources means that the pace should not be faster than the rate at which their renewable substitutes can be put in place.
    
*   Sustainable rate of emission for pollution and and wastes means that it should not be faster than the pace at which natural systems can absorb them, recycle them, or render them harmless.